# GettingAndCleaningDataProject
A. Project materials for the "Getting and Cleaning Data" Coursera course

Within this repo, you will find the following materials:

1) A R Script entitled "run_analysis.R", which contains the code to acquire, unzip, and clean the accelerometer data for this project, before creating a second dataset that contains the average of all mean and standard deviation measurements.

2) A Markdown file (CodeBook.md) describing the variables contained within the clean dataset, along with how they were created or manipulated.

3) This readme Markdown file.

Per the standards set out in this course, the data in the clean dataset generated by this R script are considered tidy.

B. Description of The Functionality of the R Script

In order to acheive the goal of building a tidy data set, the following steps outline the procedures used in R to clean and manipule the raw data for this project:

1) The script will load the dplyr library, as its functions are essential to completing the task.

2) A check will be performed to determine whether a "Final Project Data" directory has been created within the working directory, and creates one if the directory does not exist.

3) The working directory is set to the created directory folder, and the datasets are downloaded and unzipped into said folder.

4) The .txt files are read into R, and are renamed either manually (in the case of the Subject IDs and Activity datasets) or programmatically using the features.txt file

5) Both the testing and training datasets are subset to only include mean() and std() variables (please refer to CodeBook.md for an explanation of the rationale behind this subsetting).

6) The Testing and Training datasets are merged with their respective subject ID and Activity vectors. 

7) The activity vectors are converted to vectors and re-classified from numbers into descriptive text.

8) The Testing and Training datasets are merged together using row binding (the rbind() function), thus creating a master dataset named Test_Train_Data_Combined

9) Finally, a tidy dataset of the means of each measurement variable in Test_Train_Data_Combined, grouped by Subject ID and Activity, was created and exported as "Test_Train_Data_Means.txt"
